src/index.md, before:

CSS: theme.css
Format: complete
Title: UChicago PL Reading Group

# ![](reading_lambda.png "Reading Lambda") University of Chicago Programming Languages Reading Group

The Programming Languages Reading Group, part of [PL research at UChicago](http://pl.cs.uchicago.edu/), is an occasional, informal meeting to discuss interesting PL papers. Food is provided. Visitors welcome!

To receive announcements, sign up for the [`pl-readinggroup` mailing list](https://mailman.cs.uchicago.edu/mailman/listinfo/pl-readinggroup).

To suggest a paper, [open an issue](https://github.com/uchicago-cs/plrg/issues?q=is%3Aissue) on the Github page. We'll close the issue when we schedule the paper.

## Schedule

For the Summer 2018 term, we meet on Fridays at various times and places. Watch the [mailing list](https://mailman.cs.uchicago.edu/mailman/listinfo/pl-readinggroup) for details.

| Date      | Paper                                                                                                                                                                            | Leader             |
|-----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------|
| 2018-6-29 | [Towards a Strongly Typed Functional Operating System (IFP '02)](https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/3-540-44854-3_14.pdf)                                             | Brian              |
| 2018-7-6  | _Lunch to welcome Nick_                                                                                                                                                          | Ravi               |
| 2018-7-13 | A discussion of [atJIT](https://github.com/kavon/atJIT) (Related [Paper #1](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2555315), [Paper #2](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2190072)) | Kavon              |
| 2018-7-20 | —                                                                                                                                                                                | —                  |
| 2018-7-27 | NLP/ML + PL                                                                                                                                                                      | Brian              |
| 2018-8-3  | [Fungi: Typed Incremental Computation With Names (Preprint)](http://matthewhammer.org/fungi-lang-2018.pdf)                                                                       | Nick               |
| 2018-8-10 | Bidirectional Evaluation with Direct Manipulation (OOPSLA '18)                                                                                                                   | Mikaël             |
| 2018-8-17 | —                                                                                                                                                                                | —                  |
| 2018-8-24 | —                                                                                                                                                                                | —                  |
| 2018-8-31 | —                                                                                                                                                                                | —                  |
| 2018-9-7  | —                                                                                                                                                                                | —                  |
| 2018-9-14 | Output-Directed SVG Programming (draft)                                                                                                                                          | Brian              |
| 2018-9-21 | Practice Talk Party (ICFP, Elm Conf, Strange Loop, FHPC)                                                                                                                         | Cyrus, Ravi, Kavon |

## Past Terms

### Spring 2018

For the Spring 2018 term, we met on Tuesdays, 12:30pm-1:30pm in Eckhart 129.

| Date      | Paper                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Leader |
|-----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| 2018-4-10 | OOPSLA Draft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Cyrus  |
| 2018-4-17 | [Contification using Dominators (ICFP '01)](https://www.cs.purdue.edu/homes/suresh/502-Fall2008/papers/contification.pdf)                                                                                                                                                                                       | Kavon  |
| 2018-4-24 | Challenges in Higher-Order Superoptimization (presentation on possible thesis topic)                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Kavon  |
| 2018-5-1  | [Weird Machines, Exploitability, and Provable Unexploitability (IEEE TETC '17)](http://www.dullien.net/thomas/weird-machines-exploitability.pdf)                                                                                                                                                                | Joe    |
| 2018-5-8  | [Tangible Functional Programming (IFCP '07)](http://conal.net/papers/Eros/eros.pdf) [(Google TechTalk Video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=faJ8N0giqzw)                                                                                                                                                      | Brian  |
| 2018-5-15 | Molecular Programming Overview; 1. [JoCaml Tutorial](https://sites.google.com/site/winitzki/tutorial-on-join-calculus-and-its-implementation-in-ocaml-jocaml) 2. [The Reflexive CHAM and the Join Calculus (POPL '96)](https://www.classes.cs.uchicago.edu/archive/2007/spring/32102-1/papers/p372-fournet.pdf) | Joe    |
| 2018-5-22 | [Deuce: A Lightweight User Interface for Structured Editing (ICSE '18 Practice Talk)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1707.00015) [(Demo Video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oJaRkyelA-8) [(Silent Demo of User Study Tasks)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N5QcbCKm1I0)                                            | Brian  |


### Winter 2018

For the Winter 2018 term, we met on Tuesdays, 2pm-3pm in Eckhart 129.

| Date      | Paper                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Leader       |
|-----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|
| 2018-1-9  | [A Principled Approach to Ornamentation in ML (POPL '18)](https://hal.inria.fr/hal-01666104/file/ornaments-popl18-final.pdf)                                                                                                                  | Joe          |
| 2018-1-16 | [Hazelnut: A Bidirectionally Typed Structure Editor Calculus (POPL '17)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1607.04180.pdf) [(Demo)](http://hazel.org/)                                                                                                    | Cyrus        |
| 2018-1-23 | _Postponed by Illness_                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | —            |
| 2018-1-30 | [1ML – Core and Modules United (JFP '16)](https://people.mpi-sws.org/~rossberg/1ml/1ml-jfp-draft.pdf)                                                                                                                                         | Brian        |
| 2018-2-6  | [Every Bit Counts: The Binary Representation of Typed Data and Programs (JFP&nbsp;'12)](http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.227.7529&rep=rep1&type=pdf)                                                                  | Joe          |
| 2018-2-13 | [The Next 700 Programming Languages (CACM '66)](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=365257) & [Why Concatenative Programming Matters (Blog post '12)](https://evincarofautumn.blogspot.com/2012/02/why-concatenative-programming-matters.html) | Kartik & Joe |
| 2018-2-20 | Sketch-n-Sketch WIP Demo                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Brian        |
| 2018-2-27 | ICFP Drafts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Joe & Kavon  |
| 2018-3-6  | ICFP Draft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Cyrus        |

### Fall 2017

For the Fall 2017 term, we met on Thursdays, 3pm-4pm in Ryerson 276.

| Date       | Paper                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Leader |
|------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| 2017-11-09 | [Structured Asynchrony with Algebraic Effects (TyDe '17)](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/asynceffects-msr-tr-2017-21.pdf) [(Video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hrBq8R_kxI0) | Brian  |
| 2017-11-16 | [Tracing Lazy Functional Computations Using Redex Trails (PLILP '97)](https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007%2FBFb0033851.pdf)                                                                                 | Brian  |
| 2017-11-23 | _Thanksgiving_                                                                                                                                                                                                        | —      |
| 2017-11-30 | [Type Directed Compilation of Row-Typed Algebraic Effects (POPL '17)](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/algeff.pdf)                                                                 | Kavon  |
| 2017-12-07 | —                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | —      |
| 2017-12-14 | [Functional Programs That Explain Their Work (ICFP '12)](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2364579) [(Video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pqtqaL_ojpk)                                                           | Brian  |

### Spring 2017

Reading Group did not meet during the Spring 2017 term. The [Program Synthesis Seminar](https://www.classes.cs.uchicago.edu/archive/2017/spring/32001-1/) crowded it out.

### Winter 2017

For the Winter 2017 term, we met on Fridays, 11:30-12:30pm in Ryerson 277.

| Date      | Paper                                                                                                                                                                                  | Leader |
|-----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| 2017-1-13 | [Polymorphism, Subtyping, and Type Inference in MLsub (POPL '17)](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3009882) [(ICFP '15 Video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E3PIKlsXOQo)          | Brian  |
| 2017-1-20 | [Compiling Without Continuations (In submission)](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/compiling-without-continuations.pdf)                             | Kavon  |
| 2017-1-27 | [Learning Refinement Types (ICFP '15)](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/icfp_my_version.pdf) [(Video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fxuQYf7trtA) | Brian  |
| 2017-2-03 | [Refinement Reflection (or, how to turn your favorite language into a proof assistant using SMT) (draft)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1610.04641)                                            | Brian  |
| 2017-2-10 | —                                                                                                                                                                                      | —      |
| 2017-2-17 | [Language primitives and type discipline for structured communication-based programming (ESOP '98)](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/BFb0053567)                              | Brian  |
| 2017-2-24 | [Programming with Algebraic Effects and Handlers](http://arxiv.org/pdf/1203.1539v1)                                                                                                    | Joe    |
| 2017-3-03 | —                                                                                                                                                                                      | —      |
| 2017-3-10 | —                                                                                                                                                                                      | —      |
| 2017-3-17 | [Retrofitting Linear Types (In submission)](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2017/03/haskell-linear-submitted.pdf)                                          | Joe    |

### Fall 2016

For the Fall 2016 term, we met on Fridays, 12:30pm-1:30pm in Ryerson 276.

| Date       | Paper                                                                                                                              | Leader |
|------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| 2016-10-14 | [Semi-Automated SVG Programming via Direct Manipulation](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1608.02829v1.pdf)                                   | Brian  |
| 2016-10-21 | [Automatic Generation of Peephole Superoptimizers](http://theory.stanford.edu/~aiken/publications/papers/asplos06.pdf)             | Kavon  |
| 2016-10-28 | [Dag-Calculus: A Calculus for Parallel Computation](http://www.chargueraud.org/research/2016/dag_calculus/dag_calculus_icfp16.pdf) | Kavon  |
| 2016-11-04 | [A correspondence between rooted planar maps and normal planar lambda terms](http://arxiv.org/pdf/1408.5028v4)                     | Joe    |

Commit message:

Say that we aren’t really meeting for Fall 2018

src/index.md, after:

CSS: theme.css
Format: complete
Title: UChicago PL Reading Group

# ![](reading_lambda.png "Reading Lambda") University of Chicago Programming Languages Reading Group

The Programming Languages Reading Group, part of [PL research at UChicago](http://pl.cs.uchicago.edu/), is an occasional, informal meeting to discuss interesting PL papers. Food is provided. Visitors welcome!

To receive announcements, sign up for the [`pl-readinggroup` mailing list](https://mailman.cs.uchicago.edu/mailman/listinfo/pl-readinggroup).

To suggest a paper, [open an issue](https://github.com/uchicago-cs/plrg/issues?q=is%3Aissue) on the Github page. We'll close the issue when we schedule the paper.

## Schedule

For the Fall 2018 term, we are not meeting regularly because of [Stu's "The Little Typer" Seminar](https://thedeepstateconspiracy.blogspot.com/), [John's Coq Seminar](https://www.classes.cs.uchicago.edu/archive/2018/fall/32001-1/), and paper deadlines. Join the [mailing list](https://mailman.cs.uchicago.edu/mailman/listinfo/pl-readinggroup) to hear of any impromptu meetings. Reading group will resume a more regular schedule in Winter 2018.

## Past Terms

### Summer 2018
For the Summer 2018 term, we met on Fridays at various times and places.

| Date      | Paper                                                                                                                                                                            | Leader             |
|-----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------|
| 2018-6-29 | [Towards a Strongly Typed Functional Operating System (IFP '02)](https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/3-540-44854-3_14.pdf)                                             | Brian              |
| 2018-7-6  | _Lunch to welcome Nick_                                                                                                                                                          | Ravi               |
| 2018-7-13 | A discussion of [atJIT](https://github.com/kavon/atJIT) (Related [Paper #1](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2555315), [Paper #2](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2190072)) | Kavon              |
| 2018-7-20 | —                                                                                                                                                                                | —                  |
| 2018-7-27 | NLP/ML + PL                                                                                                                                                                      | Brian              |
| 2018-8-3  | [Fungi: Typed Incremental Computation With Names (Preprint)](http://matthewhammer.org/fungi-lang-2018.pdf)                                                                       | Nick               |
| 2018-8-10 | Bidirectional Evaluation with Direct Manipulation (OOPSLA '18)                                                                                                                   | Mikaël             |
| 2018-8-17 | —                                                                                                                                                                                | —                  |
| 2018-8-24 | —                                                                                                                                                                                | —                  |
| 2018-8-31 | —                                                                                                                                                                                | —                  |
| 2018-9-7  | —                                                                                                                                                                                | —                  |
| 2018-9-14 | Output-Directed SVG Programming (draft)                                                                                                                                          | Brian              |
| 2018-9-21 | Practice Talk Party (ICFP, Elm Conf, Strange Loop, FHPC)                                                                                                                         | Cyrus, Ravi, Kavon |

### Spring 2018

For the Spring 2018 term, we met on Tuesdays, 12:30pm-1:30pm in Eckhart 129.

| Date      | Paper                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Leader |
|-----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| 2018-4-10 | OOPSLA Draft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Cyrus  |
| 2018-4-17 | [Contification using Dominators (ICFP '01)](https://www.cs.purdue.edu/homes/suresh/502-Fall2008/papers/contification.pdf)                                                                                                                                                                                       | Kavon  |
| 2018-4-24 | Challenges in Higher-Order Superoptimization (presentation on possible thesis topic)                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Kavon  |
| 2018-5-1  | [Weird Machines, Exploitability, and Provable Unexploitability (IEEE TETC '17)](http://www.dullien.net/thomas/weird-machines-exploitability.pdf)                                                                                                                                                                | Joe    |
| 2018-5-8  | [Tangible Functional Programming (IFCP '07)](http://conal.net/papers/Eros/eros.pdf) [(Google TechTalk Video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=faJ8N0giqzw)                                                                                                                                                      | Brian  |
| 2018-5-15 | Molecular Programming Overview; 1. [JoCaml Tutorial](https://sites.google.com/site/winitzki/tutorial-on-join-calculus-and-its-implementation-in-ocaml-jocaml) 2. [The Reflexive CHAM and the Join Calculus (POPL '96)](https://www.classes.cs.uchicago.edu/archive/2007/spring/32102-1/papers/p372-fournet.pdf) | Joe    |
| 2018-5-22 | [Deuce: A Lightweight User Interface for Structured Editing (ICSE '18 Practice Talk)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1707.00015) [(Demo Video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oJaRkyelA-8) [(Silent Demo of User Study Tasks)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N5QcbCKm1I0)                                            | Brian  |


### Winter 2018

For the Winter 2018 term, we met on Tuesdays, 2pm-3pm in Eckhart 129.

| Date      | Paper                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Leader       |
|-----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|
| 2018-1-9  | [A Principled Approach to Ornamentation in ML (POPL '18)](https://hal.inria.fr/hal-01666104/file/ornaments-popl18-final.pdf)                                                                                                                  | Joe          |
| 2018-1-16 | [Hazelnut: A Bidirectionally Typed Structure Editor Calculus (POPL '17)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1607.04180.pdf) [(Demo)](http://hazel.org/)                                                                                                    | Cyrus        |
| 2018-1-23 | _Postponed by Illness_                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | —            |
| 2018-1-30 | [1ML – Core and Modules United (JFP '16)](https://people.mpi-sws.org/~rossberg/1ml/1ml-jfp-draft.pdf)                                                                                                                                         | Brian        |
| 2018-2-6  | [Every Bit Counts: The Binary Representation of Typed Data and Programs (JFP&nbsp;'12)](http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.227.7529&rep=rep1&type=pdf)                                                                  | Joe          |
| 2018-2-13 | [The Next 700 Programming Languages (CACM '66)](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=365257) & [Why Concatenative Programming Matters (Blog post '12)](https://evincarofautumn.blogspot.com/2012/02/why-concatenative-programming-matters.html) | Kartik & Joe |
| 2018-2-20 | Sketch-n-Sketch WIP Demo                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Brian        |
| 2018-2-27 | ICFP Drafts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Joe & Kavon  |
| 2018-3-6  | ICFP Draft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Cyrus        |

### Fall 2017

For the Fall 2017 term, we met on Thursdays, 3pm-4pm in Ryerson 276.

| Date       | Paper                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Leader |
|------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| 2017-11-09 | [Structured Asynchrony with Algebraic Effects (TyDe '17)](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/asynceffects-msr-tr-2017-21.pdf) [(Video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hrBq8R_kxI0) | Brian  |
| 2017-11-16 | [Tracing Lazy Functional Computations Using Redex Trails (PLILP '97)](https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007%2FBFb0033851.pdf)                                                                                 | Brian  |
| 2017-11-23 | _Thanksgiving_                                                                                                                                                                                                        | —      |
| 2017-11-30 | [Type Directed Compilation of Row-Typed Algebraic Effects (POPL '17)](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/algeff.pdf)                                                                 | Kavon  |
| 2017-12-07 | —                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | —      |
| 2017-12-14 | [Functional Programs That Explain Their Work (ICFP '12)](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2364579) [(Video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pqtqaL_ojpk)                                                           | Brian  |

### Spring 2017

Reading Group did not meet during the Spring 2017 term. The [Program Synthesis Seminar](https://www.classes.cs.uchicago.edu/archive/2017/spring/32001-1/) crowded it out.

### Winter 2017

For the Winter 2017 term, we met on Fridays, 11:30-12:30pm in Ryerson 277.

| Date      | Paper                                                                                                                                                                                  | Leader |
|-----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| 2017-1-13 | [Polymorphism, Subtyping, and Type Inference in MLsub (POPL '17)](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3009882) [(ICFP '15 Video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E3PIKlsXOQo)          | Brian  |
| 2017-1-20 | [Compiling Without Continuations (In submission)](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/compiling-without-continuations.pdf)                             | Kavon  |
| 2017-1-27 | [Learning Refinement Types (ICFP '15)](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/icfp_my_version.pdf) [(Video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fxuQYf7trtA) | Brian  |
| 2017-2-03 | [Refinement Reflection (or, how to turn your favorite language into a proof assistant using SMT) (draft)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1610.04641)                                            | Brian  |
| 2017-2-10 | —                                                                                                                                                                                      | —      |
| 2017-2-17 | [Language primitives and type discipline for structured communication-based programming (ESOP '98)](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/BFb0053567)                              | Brian  |
| 2017-2-24 | [Programming with Algebraic Effects and Handlers](http://arxiv.org/pdf/1203.1539v1)                                                                                                    | Joe    |
| 2017-3-03 | —                                                                                                                                                                                      | —      |
| 2017-3-10 | —                                                                                                                                                                                      | —      |
| 2017-3-17 | [Retrofitting Linear Types (In submission)](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2017/03/haskell-linear-submitted.pdf)                                          | Joe    |

### Fall 2016

For the Fall 2016 term, we met on Fridays, 12:30pm-1:30pm in Ryerson 276.

| Date       | Paper                                                                                                                              | Leader |
|------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| 2016-10-14 | [Semi-Automated SVG Programming via Direct Manipulation](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1608.02829v1.pdf)                                   | Brian  |
| 2016-10-21 | [Automatic Generation of Peephole Superoptimizers](http://theory.stanford.edu/~aiken/publications/papers/asplos06.pdf)             | Kavon  |
| 2016-10-28 | [Dag-Calculus: A Calculus for Parallel Computation](http://www.chargueraud.org/research/2016/dag_calculus/dag_calculus_icfp16.pdf) | Kavon  |
| 2016-11-04 | [A correspondence between rooted planar maps and normal planar lambda terms](http://arxiv.org/pdf/1408.5028v4)                     | Joe    |
